Citation Marker: ŅłĆciteŅłéfile120Ņłü

Title: How to install OptiSigns on Samsung Tizen Smart TVs

URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/14726570281875-How-to-install-OptiSigns-on-Samsung-Tizen-Smart-TVs

Updated: 2025-09-02T19:37:57Z

[L1] # How to install OptiSigns on Samsung Tizen Smart TVs

[L2] 

[L3] While OptiSigns app is available on Samsung Tizen app store, we still recommend to use a dedicated player like [OptiSigns Android Player](https://links.optisigns.com/szzk) due to following reasons:

[L4] 

[L5] * Samsung Tizen does not allow apps to autostart, include Digital Signage app like OptiSigns, so not really suitable for digital signage unless your team can turn on/off TV every day as part of their schedule

[L6] * Low local storage, usually only a few hundreds MBs available. It's good for streaming Youtube, Netflix, but for Digital Signage you want your content to be downloaded and cached locally to ensure playback even when thereŌĆÖs network interruption and save bandwidths.

[L7] * OptiSigns app are not available on some Samsung TV models and regions

[L8] 

[L9] In short, if you want to play small simple playlist with couple of images, videos, weather apps, and don't mind manually launching the app when Samsung TV powered on, you can continue to install OptiSigns app on Samsung TV.

[L10] 

[L11] ---

[L12] 

[L13] ## **Here are the steps to install the OptiSigns app on your Samsung Smart TV:**

[L14] 

[L15] |  |

[L16] | --- |

[L17] | Before you start, make sure your Samsung Smart TV is connected to the internet and has been updated to the latest version of Tizen. You can check for updates by going to Settings > Support > Software Update on your TV. |

[L18] 

[L19] ### **Step 1: Open the Samsung Smart Hub on your TV**

[L20] 

[L21] To access the Samsung Smart Hub, press the Home button on your TV remote and select Smart Hub. The Smart Hub is a central location where you can download and install apps on your Samsung Smart TV.

[L22] 

[L23] ### **Step 2: Search for the OptiSigns application**

[L24] 

[L25] Once you are in the Smart Hub, use the search bar to search for "OptiSigns". The app should appear in the search results. If you do not see it, make sure you have spelled the name correctly.

[L26] 

[L27] NOTE: if you are in the US and cannot find OptiSigns on the app store, your model is very likely not supported, please consider a dedicated player like [OptiSigns Android Player.](https://shop.optisigns.com/products/optisigns-android-stick-player-2)

[L28] 

[L29] ### **Step 3: Install the OptiSigns application**

[L30] 

[L31] Select the OptiSigns application from the search results and press the Install button. The app will start downloading and installing onto your Samsung Smart TV. The installation process may take a few minutes depending on the speed of your internet connection.

[L32] 

[L33] ### **Step 4: Launch the OptiSigns application**

[L34] 

[L35] Once the OptiSigns app has been installed, you can launch it by selecting it from the Smart Hub or by pressing the Home button on your remote and navigating to the Apps section. Select the OptiSigns app and press the Enter button to launch it.

[L36] 

[L37] ### **Step 5: Sign in and pair the screen to your account**

[L38] 

[L39] Now you are ready to go to our portal at [https://app.optisigns.com/](https://app.optisigns.com/app)

[L40] 

[L41] Pair the screen using your screen's code and start assigning content to it.

[L42] 

[L43] For detailed steps check [here](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360016374813).

[L44] 

[L45] ┬Ā

[L46] 

[L47] If you have any additional questions, concerns or any feedback about OptiSigns, feel free to reach out to our support team at┬Ā[support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com)