Citation Marker: citefile385

Title: Roku Release Notes & Limitation

URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360042143333-Roku-Release-Notes-Limitation

Updated: 2026-06-02T20:21:45Z

[L1] # Roku Release Notes & Limitation

[L2] 

[L3] Updated Sep 2023. After Roku OS 12.0.0 updates, Roku is enforcing stricter to power management & screensaver.

[L4] 

[L5] Roku platform has a lot of restrictions. **In short, if you just need to display static menus or simple slideshows, and don't mind spending sometime setting it up, then it's OK.**

[L6] 

[L7] For better compatibility and reliability, we recommend a dedicated player like our [Android Stick Player](https://links.optisigns.com/szzk) or Google ChromeCast, or any [Windows, Mac, Linux](https://www.optisigns.com/download) devices.

[L8] 

[L9]  

[L10] 

[L11] Since Roku is a device designed for streaming, it's limited in processing power, storage and capability. This article describe the limitation in term of using the device for Digital Signage application.

[L12] 

[L13] **1) OptiSigns App on Roku supports:**

[L14] 

[L15] * Images, Videos, Documents

[L16] * Canvas, Templates, Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive apps

[L17] * Playlist, Schedule

[L18] * Portrait, Landscape mode, screen rotation

[L19] 

[L20] **2) Not supported:** (these are the limitation specific to Roku Platform)

[L21] 

[L22] * All other apps such as Social Media, Youtube, News, Streaming videos, etc.

[L23] * SplitScreen display.

[L24] * Roku has small storage, be mindful of how much content you would like to cache on it.

[L25] * Advanced features of playlists such as shuffle, and background music.

[L26] * Advanced features of the designer tool such as animations, transitions, and widgets.

[L27] * Advanced features of schedules such as default content.

[L28] 

[L29] **How to install OptiSigns Player on Roku:**

[L30] 

[L31] There are 2 ways to install OptiSigns Player on Roku:

[L32] 

[L33] * [Normal channel/app](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039566974-How-to-install-OptiSigns-Player-on-Roku-TVs) can play images, videos but cannot autostart

[L34] * [Screensaver](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500002383502) can only play images

[L35] 

[L36] In summary, currently, you can reliably use the OptiSigns app on Roku to display images slide shows, and playlists.

[L37] 

[L38] Other features will not function correctly due to the limitations of the Roku platform. 

[L39] 

[L40]  

[L41] 

[L42] If you have further questions, or feedback please send us an email at [support@optisigns.com](mailto:support@optisigns.com).