Citation Marker: citefile149

Title: How to Create an Attract Screen for Your Kiosk

URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/29232460955539-How-to-Create-an-Attract-Screen-for-Your-Kiosk

Updated: 2025-09-04T14:01:30Z

[L1] # How to Create an Attract Screen for Your Kiosk

[L2] 

[L3] #### Are you looking to bring your interactive kiosk to life and engage passersby with your product? Or, do you have promotional content that you'd like to showcase while the kiosk is idle? Let’s create an appealing visual display to enhance engagement and capture the attention of your audience.

[L4] 

[L5] |  |

[L6] | --- |

[L7] | The Engage plan is needed to access our Kiosk features and to push them to multiple screens. |

[L8] 

[L9] **In this article**

[L10] 

[L11] * [What is an Attract Screen?](#what)

[L12] * [Creating an Attract Screen](#creating)

[L13] 	+ [Linking an Element](#linking)

[L14] 

[L15] ---

[L16] 

[L17] ## What is an Attract Screen?

[L18] 

[L19] An **Attract Screen** is what your interactive kiosk will display until someone engages with the screen. Once the screen is interacted with, it will take the viewer to your kiosk. An attract screen could be anything you may want to display to attract passerby's to interact with your kiosk: a visual welcome screen, a rotating playlist of ads, a video of your product or brand, and more!

[L20] 

[L21] Here's a simple example we've created, showing you both the attract screen and interactive kiosk!

[L22] 

[L23] #### Now, let's get started!

[L24] 

[L25] ---

[L26] 

[L27] ## Creating an Attract Screen

[L28] 

[L29] First, you'll want to navigate to the [**Engage Management**](https://app.optisigns.com/app/engageManagement) page.

[L30] 

[L31] Select either **New App** or **Touch Screen** Kiosks → **Touch Screen Kiosks** → Click **Select App**

[L32] 

[L33] Select **Kiosk Designer** **Pro** → Click **Build**

[L34] 

[L35] You'll then be taken to our Designer Pro!

[L36] 

[L37] In Designer Pro, select **Widgets** → **Video** → **Select your video** from your asset library

[L38] 

[L39] Click on your video element → Click **Format Options** from the top menu bar

[L40] 

[L41] A **Format Options menu** will appear on the right side of the screen → Open **Position** → Click **"Use as Background"**

[L42] 

[L43] Your video will now become the background on Canvas and you can layer interactive elements over it!

[L44] 

[L45] ---

[L46] 

[L47] ### Linking An Element

[L48] 

[L49] For this example, we created a "Tap Here to Begin" button using shapes and texts available in Designer.

[L50] 

[L51] Once the element is created, select the element you'd like to be interactive→ Click **Link** → Click "**Add Link"** from the menu on the right.

[L52] 

[L53] You can link this element to a **Website URL** or to **an asset** within your asset library.

[L54] 

[L55] |  |

[L56] | --- |

[L57] | If you have more than 4 interactive/linked elements on a single page, you may run into performance issues.  |

[L58] 

[L59] Once you've selected your desired link, you adjust your **"Link** **Options"** in the right menu

[L60] 

[L61] * **Scale:** Adjust how the linked element will fit to your screen when pushed

[L62] * **Duration:** This is the maximum duration the asset will display on the screen before returning to the original source it is linked from.

[L63] 	+ **Preload:** This will preload the asset before being clicked. Select this for a smoother kiosk experience.

[L64] * **Close** **& Nav Bar Styler:** Customize the navigation bar and close icon to better fit your design.

[L65] 	+ **Icon Position:** Adjust where you'd like the icons to be on your screen.

[L66] 	+ **Icon Style:** Adjust the visual style of the home icon.

[L67] 	+ **Icon** **Color:** Adjust the color of the icon and nav bar elements.

[L68] 	+ **Background Color:** Adjust the background color that exists behind the icons.

[L69] 	+ **Opacity:** This adjusts the visibility of the background color, *not* the icons.

[L70] 	+ **Icon Size:** Adjust how big or small you'd like the icon and nav bar to appear on your screen.

[L71] 	+ **Show Navigation Bar:** This will add a "Back" and "Forward" button next to the home icon.

[L72] 

[L73] |  |

[L74] | --- |

[L75] | It is highly recommended to turn on the navigation bar for better performance on your device, especially if your kiosk has multiple pages.  |

[L76] 

[L77] Name your design → Click **Save** → **Push to Screens**

[L78] 

[L79] ---

[L80] 

[L81] ### That's it! Now, you can enhance your interactive kiosk with an eye-catching Attract Screen!

[L82] 

[L83] Explore other ways to use our Kiosk features and how to bring your interactive displays to life:

[L84] 

[L85] * [How to use Kiosk Lite (formerly known as Interactive Kiosk app)](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360053993934)

[L86] * [How to Create a Content Library Kiosk](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/17604055961747)

[L87] * [How to use the QR Scan-to-Interact (Touchless QR) app](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/8899727608083)