Citation Marker: ŅłĆciteŅłéfile348Ņłü

Title: How to Create & Use Playlists

URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/28295104605843-How-to-Create-Use-Playlists

Updated: 2026-03-31T21:42:16Z

[L1] # How to Create & Use Playlists

[L2] 

[L3] ### Playlists organize media files like images and videos into a preferred sequence, enhancing accessibility and continuous playback. This article will guide you through the process of creating playlists with OptiSigns.

[L4] 

[L5] |  |

[L6] | --- |

[L7] | Use Case |

[L8] | A clothing store uses a rotating playlist on their screens┬Ā to showcase seasonal collections, promotions, and styling tips. This dynamic display engages customers, keeps content fresh, and drives sales by highlighting new arrivals and special offers. |

[L9] 

[L10] |  |

[L11] | --- |

[L12] | **NOTE** |

[L13] | If you're new to OptiSigns, you'll be using one of two interfaces: the **1.0** interface, or the Updated interface. For your convenience, we've provided screenshots of each. |

[L14] 

[L15] ## Let's Get Started:

[L16] 

[L17] You can add various types of content to your playlists, including images, videos, web links, and apps. These items can be mixed and matched in any order and duration.

[L18] 

[L19] **1.** First, you will need to **create an asset** from your [Files/Assets page](https://app.optisigns.com/app/assetManagement) to add content to your playlist.

[L20] 

[L21] **2.** Alternatively, you can click the '**Playlists**' tab, then on the right side, click '**New**.' From there, you can either create an asset or upload files, templates, or feeds.

[L22] 

[L23] **Example:**

[L24] 

[L25] |  |  |

[L26] | --- | --- |

[L27] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L28] |  |  |

[L29] 

[L30] ## **How to Create a Playlist**

[L31] 

[L32] **1.** To create a playlist, navigate to "**Playlist**" on the top navigation bar.  

[L33] **2.** Click "**Create Playlist**".

[L34] 

[L35] |  |  |

[L36] | --- | --- |

[L37] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L38] |  |  |

[L39] 

[L40] **3.** Click on the **pencil** icon to change the playlist name on 1.0. On the Updated Interface, you'll be prompted to Name the Playlist before anything else.

[L41] 

[L42] |  |  |

[L43] | --- | --- |

[L44] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L45] |  |  |

[L46] 

[L47] **4.** Name it something that is easily identifiable to you. In this case, let's name it "**Lobby TV Playlist.**"

[L48] 

[L49] |  |  |

[L50] | --- | --- |

[L51] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L52] |  |  |

[L53] 

[L54] **5.** **Drag and drop** the videos/images that you want uploaded into the playlist.

[L55] 

[L56] |  |  |

[L57] | --- | --- |

[L58] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L59] |  |  |

[L60] 

[L61] |  |

[L62] | --- |

[L63] | Note: You can view an example of what the playlist would look like below in the next step. |

[L64] 

[L65] **6.** Click on the **Pencil** icon next to the item duration, as shown below, to change the duration of the item on the playlist. On the Updated UI, simply click the number itself.

[L66] 

[L67] |  |  |

[L68] | --- | --- |

[L69] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L70] |  |  |

[L71] 

[L72] |  |

[L73] | --- |

[L74] | Note: If you adjust the duration of a video within your playlist, you will have the option to revert it back to its original duration. |

[L75] 

[L76] |  |  |

[L77] | --- | --- |

[L78] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L79] |  |  |

[L80] 

[L81] **7.** Lastly, when your Playlist is ready, you can push your content to screens by selecting the '**Push to Screens**' icon on the top of your playlist.

[L82] 

[L83] |  |  |

[L84] | --- | --- |

[L85] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L86] |  |  |

[L87] 

[L88] You can:

[L89] * Push your content to a screen(s) immediately

[L90] * Schedule your content for a future time

[L91] * Temporarily take over the screen for a specific period (i.e. 5 minutes), then revert back to previous content.

[L92] 

[L93] Click [here](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/18988049363859-Push-Contents-to-your-Screens#:~:text=Simply%20click%20Edit%20in%20your,assign%20content%20to%20your%20screens.&text=This%20method%20will%20allow%20you,%2C%20SplitScreen%2C%20or%20using%20Designer.) to learn more about Pushing Your Contents to Your Screens.

[L94] 

[L95] |  |  |

[L96] | --- | --- |

[L97] | **OptiSigns 1.0** | **Updated UI** |

[L98] |  |  |

[L99] 

[L100] ┬Ā

[L101] ## **That's all!**

[L102] 

[L103] If you're interested in exploring our advanced features further, we offer articles on:

[L104] 

[L105] * [How to Manage Your Playlist Settings](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/28295074995859-How-to-Manage-and-Edit-Your-Playlist-Settings)

[L106] * [How to create and use Nested Playlists](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360043621953-How-to-create-and-use-Nested-Playlists)

[L107] 

[L108] These resources provide detailed insights into optimizing your playlist management experience with OptiSigns.