Citation Marker: ŅłĆciteŅłéfile130Ņłü

Title: Roku Troubleshooting guide

URL: https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/28421615261971-Roku-Troubleshooting-guide

Updated: 2025-09-02T20:10:19Z

[L1] # Roku Troubleshooting guide

[L2] 

[L3] ### **IMPORTANT NOTE:**

[L4] 

[L5] Updated Sep 2023. After version 12.0.0 updates, Roku is enforcing stricter to power management & screensaver.

[L6] 

[L7] Roku platform has a lot of restrictions. **In short, if you just need to display static menus or simple slideshows, and don't mind spending sometime setting it up, then it's OK.**

[L8] 

[L9] For better compatibility and reliability, we recommend a dedicated player like our [Android Stick Player](https://links.optisigns.com/szzk) or Google ChromeCast, or any [Windows, Mac, Linux](https://www.optisigns.com/download) devices.

[L10] 

[L11] ┬Ā

[L12] 

[L13] ### **Note what features contents supported & not supported:**

[L14] 

[L15] **1) OptiSigns App on Roku supports:**

[L16] 

[L17] * Images, Videos, Documents

[L18] * Canvas, Templates, Google Drive, Dropbox, OneDrive apps

[L19] * Playlist, Schedule

[L20] * Portrait, Landscape mode, screen rotation

[L21] 

[L22] **2) Not supported:** (these are the limitation specific to Roku Platform)

[L23] 

[L24] * All other apps such as Social Media, Youtube, News, Streaming videos, etc.

[L25] * SplitScreen display.

[L26] * Roku has small storage, be mindful of how much content you would like to cache on it.

[L27] * Advanced features of playlists such as shuffle, and background music.

[L28] * Advanced features of the designer tool such as animations, transitions, and widgets.

[L29] * Advanced features of schedules such as default content.

[L30] 

[L31] **There are 2 ways to install OptiSigns Player on Roku:**

[L32] 

[L33] * [Normal channel/app](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039566974-How-to-install-OptiSigns-Player-on-Roku-TVs) can play images, videos but cannot autostart

[L34] * [Screensaver](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500002383502) can only play images

[L35] 

[L36] ### **Troubleshooting guide:**

[L37] 

[L38] **Content not playing:**

[L39] 

[L40] * Make sure there are some content assign to the screen, try to assign a simple image and see

[L41] * Video not playing: Screensaver can only play images, if you want to play video please be sure to install [OptiSigns as channel app.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360039566974-How-to-install-OptiSigns-Player-on-Roku-TVs)

[L42] * Roku has very limited local storage, make sure your playlist is less than 10 items, or less than 100MB total.

[L43] 

[L44] **Check power cables & connections:**

[L45] 

[L46] * One of the most common causes of device stability is not using provided power adapters & cables. TVŌĆÖs USB ports do not have sufficient power to stably run the device for extended periods of time

[L47] 

[L48] **Networking:**

[L49] 

[L50] * This test will resolve most of the networking issues:  

[L51] 

[L52] 	+ Try mobile hotspot

[L53] 	+ Try different network (bring the device home or to another location with better WiFi)

[L54] * Check other app like Youtube make sure it can connect to internet

[L55] * If Youtube is playing and OptiSigns app has issue, you could be behind a fire wall.  

[L56] 

[L57] 	+ If you have firewalls, make sure our [servers are whitelisted.](https://support.optisigns.com/hc/en-us/articles/360047275934-Whitelist-OptiSigns-IP-addresses-ports)

[L58] 

[L59] **HDMI & TV connection:**

[L60] 

[L61] * Try a different HDMI port on your TV

[L62] * Try to connect device directly to TV without HDMI extender

[L63] * Try a different TV, Monitor

[L64] 

[L65] **Remote Controller issues:**

[L66] 

[L67] * Ensure batteries are installed in remote controller, try fresh batteries.

[L68] * [Use your phone as Roku remote](https://support.roku.com/article/115002681087)

[L69] 

[L70] **Factory Reset:**

[L71] 

[L72] Lastly, you can try [Factory Reset the Roku device](https://support.roku.com/en-ca/article/208757008).